# Confusion-EEG-Data-Analysis
&emsp;&emsp; We chose to perform machine learning analyses on an EEG dataset to further contribute to the exploration of what models are best suited for EEG data. The dataset we chose was  “Confused Student EEG Brainwave Data” from Kaggle. In this dataset, EEG signal data was collected from 10 college students who were shown a total of 10 MOOC (Massive Open Online Course) videos. Half of these videos consisted of subjects that college students should be familiar with, and half were more complicated subjects. After watching the video, the student rated their confusion level on a scale of 1-7, where one corresponded to the least confusing and seven corresponded to the most confusing. These labels were further normalized into binary labels of 1 or 0, or whether the student was confused or not. 
<br>
&emsp;&emsp; For our analysis we started by cleaning our dataset and making it optimal for our research task, exploratory data analysis (EDA), and lastly finally running and comparing the metrics of our four different models. The classification methods we chose to use were Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machines (SVM), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), and Random Forest. For each model, to help visualize the classification results, we calculated and plotted a confusion matrix and calculated the regressor metrics Mean Squared Error (MSE) and Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) for each model to conduct cross validation in the Results section. Finally we perform K-folds cross validation with a varying number of folds to see the overall generalization error and average accuracy of each model. 
<br>
&emsp;&emsp; Throughout these models we discovered that the SVM model performed best with this EEG dataset. In order from best performing to worst, our models ranked at SVM, Random Forest, Logistic Regression, and KNN. The error metrics we ran and graphed can confirm this ordering as the SVM model’s MSE and RMSE were 0.239 and 0.489 respectively. 
